#labels iCalendar
====iCalendar====
*iCalendar* is a computer file format which allows Internet users to send meeting requests and tasks to other Internet users, via email, or sharing files with an extension of .ics. Recipients of the iCalendar data file (with supporting software, such as an email client or calendar application) can respond to the sender easily or counter propose another meeting date/time.
iCalendar is used and supported by a large number of products, including Google Calendar, Apple iCal,] GoDaddy Online Group Calendar, IBM Lotus Notes,] Yahoo! Calendar and partially also by Microsoft Outlook. iCalendar is designed to be independent of the transport protocol. For example, certain events can be sent by traditional email or whole calendar files can be shared and edited by using a WebDav server, or SyncML. Simple web servers (using just the HTTP protocol) are often used to distribute iCalendar data about an event and to publish busy times of an individual. Publishers can embed iCalendar data in web pages using hCalendar, a 1:1 microformat representation of iCalendar in semantic (X)HTML.

iCalendar was created by the Internet Engineering Task Force Calendaring and Scheduling Working Group (chaired by Anik Ganguly of Open Text Corporation), and was authored by Frank Dawson of Lotus Development Corporation and Derik Stenerson of Microsoft Corporation. iCalendar is heavily based on the earlier vCalendar by the Internet Mail Consortium (IMC). iCalendar data files are plain text files with the extension .ics or .ifb (for files containing availability information only). In September 2009 RFC 5545 replaced RFC 2445 and now defines the standard.
The filename extension of "ics" is to be used to designate a file containing (an arbitrary set of) calendaring and scheduling information consistent with this MIME content type.
The filename extension of "ifb" is to be used to designate a file containing free or busy time information consistent with this MIME content type.
The file type code of "iCal" is to be used in Apple Macintosh operating system environments to designate a file containing calendaring and scheduling information consistent with this MIME media type.
The file type code of "iFBf" is to be used in Apple Macintosh operating system environments to designate a file containing free or busy time information consistent with this MIME media type.
By default, iCalendar uses the UTF-8 character set; a different character set can be specified using the "charset" MIME parameter (if the transport method used supports MIME, such as Email or HTTP).
Each line is terminated by CR+LF (in hexadecimal: 0D0A). Lines should be limited to 75 octets (not characters) long. Where a data item is too long to fit on a single line it can be continued on following lines by starting the continuation lines with a space character (in hex: 20) or a tab character (in hex: 09).
Actual line feeds in data items are encoded as a backslash followed by the letter N (the bytes 5C 6E or 5C 4E in UTF-8). iCalendar data has the MIME content type text/calendar.
[edit]Limitations and future

The iCalendar format is designed to transmit calendar-based data, such as events, and intentionally does not describe what to do with that data. Thus, other programming may be needed to negotiate what to do with this data.
iCalendar is meant to "provide the definition of a common format for openly exchanging calendaring and scheduling information across the Internet". While the features most often used by users are widely supported by iCalendar, some more advanced capabilities have problems. For example, most vendors do not support Journals (VJOURNAL). Recurring and repeating meetings still have a "bit of mystery and ambiguity associated with them", causing some conversion problems in some cases. VTODOs have had conversion problems as well.
iCalendar's calendar is also not compatible with some non-Gregorian calendars such as the lunar calendars used in Israel or Saudi Arabia.
The memo "Calendar Access Protocol" (RFC 4324) was an initial attempt at a universal system to create real-time calendars. This protocol was eventually abandoned, possibly because of excessive complexity. Regardless, iCalendar-based code such as GroupDAV and CalDAV are now being used more frequently in both client and server software packages.
The IETF "Calendaring and Scheduling Working Group" (ietf-calsify WG) has published additional proposed revisions to the iCalendar standards (as RFC-drafts/"Proposed";), but as of January 2011, the group has 'ended'. Much of their work focused on clarifications to the previous standards, and was apparently influenced on work by the Calendaring and Scheduling Consortium (a.k.a. Calconnect)
[edit]Technical specifications

[edit]Core object
The top-level element in iCalendar is the Calendaring and Scheduling Core Object, a collection of calendar and scheduling information. Typically, this information will consist of a single iCalendar object. However, multiple iCalendar objects can be grouped together.
The first line must be "BEGIN:VCALENDAR", and the last line must be "END:VCALENDAR"; the contents between these lines is called the "icalbody".
The body of the iCalendar object (the icalbody) is made up of a list of calendar properties and one or more calendar components. The calendar properties apply to the entire calendar. The calendar components are several calendar properties which create a calendar schematic (design). For example, the calendar component can specify an event, a to-do list, a journal entry, time zone information, or free/busy time information, or an alarm. Empty lines are not allowed in some versions of usage (Google calendar).
Here is a simple example of an iCalendar object, "Bastille Day Party" event which occurs July 14, 1997 17:00 (UTC) through July 15, 1997 03:59:59 (UTC):

<code>
BEGIN:VCALENDAR
VERSION:2.0
PRODID:-//hacksw/handcal//NONSGML v1.0//EN
BEGIN:VEVENT
UID:uid1@example.com
DTSTAMP:19970714T170000Z
ORGANIZER;CN=John Doe:MAILTO:john.doe@example.com
DTSTART:19970714T170000Z
DTEND:19970715T035959Z
SUMMARY:Bastille Day Party
END:VEVENT
END:VCALENDAR
</code>

There are many different types of components which can be used in iCalendar, as described below.
*Events* (VEVENT)
"VEVENT" describes an event, which has a scheduled amount of time on a calendar. Normally, when a user accepts the calendar event, this will cause that time to be considered busy.[13] A VEVENT may include a VALARM which allows an alarm. Such events have a DTSTART which sets a starting time, and a DTEND which sets an ending time. If the calendar event is recurring, DTSTART sets up the start of the first event.
VEVENT also is used for calendar events without a specific time, such as anniversaries and daily reminders.[14] If you need to send in a cancellation for an event the UID should be same as the original event and the component properties should be set to cancel Ex.

METHOD:CANCEL
STATUS:CANCELLED

For sending an UPDATE for an event the UID should match the original UID. the other component property to be set is:
SEQUENCE:<Num of Update>
i.e. for the first update
SEQUENCE:1

In Microsoft Outlook, the SUMMARY corresponds to the "Subject" entry in the "Appointment" form, and DESCRIPTION to the descriptive text below it. In addition, Outlook 2003 demands a UID and a DTSTAMP.

*To-do*(VTODO)
VTODO explains a to-do item, i.e., an action-item or assignment.
The following is an example of a to-do due on April 15, 1998.[15] An audio alarm has been specified to remind the calendar user at noon, the day before the to-do is expected to be completed and repeat hourly, four additional times. The SEQUENCE element shows this to-do has been modified twice since it was initially created.
<code>
BEGIN:VCALENDAR
VERSION:2.0
PRODID:-//ABC Corporation//NONSGML My Product//EN
BEGIN:VTODO
DTSTAMP:19980130T134500Z
SEQUENCE:2
UID:uid4@host1.com
ORGANIZER:MAILTO:unclesam@us.gov
ATTENDEE;PARTSTAT=ACCEPTED:MAILTO:jqpublic@example.com
DUE:19980415T235959
STATUS:NEEDS-ACTION
SUMMARY:Submit Income Taxes
BEGIN:VALARM
ACTION:AUDIO
TRIGGER:19980403T120000
ATTACH;FMTTYPE=audio/basic:http://example.com/pub/audio-
 files/ssbanner.aud
REPEAT:4
DURATION:PT1H
END:VALARM
END:VTODO
END:VCALENDAR
</code>

*Journal entry* (VJOURNAL)
VJOURNAL is a journal entry. They attach descriptive text to a particular calendar date, may be used to record a daily record of activities or accomplishments, or describe progress with a related to-do entry. A "VJOURNAL" calendar component does not take up time on a calendar, so it has no effect on free or busy time (just like TRANSPARENT entries). In practice, few programs support VJOURNAL entries, although examples exist: Plum Canary's Chirp software uses VTODO and VJOURNAL together. Also KOrganizer from the KDE desktop supports VJOURNAL.
The following is an example of a journal entry[11]:

<code>
BEGIN:VCALENDAR
VERSION:2.0
PRODID:-//ABC Corporation//NONSGML My Product//EN
BEGIN:VJOURNAL
DTSTAMP:19970324T120000Z
UID:uid5@host1.com
ORGANIZER:MAILTO:jsmith@example.com
STATUS:DRAFT
CLASS:PUBLIC
CATEGORIES:Project Report, XYZ, Weekly Meeting
DESCRIPTION:Project xyz Review Meeting Minutes\n
 Agenda\n1. Review of project version 1.0 requirements.\n2.
 Definition
 of project processes.\n3. Review of project schedule.\n
 Participants: John Smith, Jane Doe, Jim Dandy\n-It was
  decided that the requirements need to be signed off by
  product marketing.\n-Project processes were accepted.\n
 -Project schedule needs to account for scheduled holidays
  and employee vacation time. Check with HR for specific
  dates.\n-New schedule will be distributed by Friday.\n-
 Next weeks meeting is cancelled. No meeting until 3/23.
END:VJOURNAL
END:VCALENDAR
</code>

(Note: This example is literally taken from RFC 2445 with the correction of changing the word 'CATEGORY' to 'CATEGORIES', which is a mistake in the original RFC)

*Free/busy time* (VFREEBUSY)
VFREEBUSY is a request for free/busy time, is a response to a request, or is a published set of busy time.[clarification needed] 
The following is an example of published busy time information.:

<code>
BEGIN:VCALENDAR
VERSION:2.0
PRODID:-//RDU Software//NONSGML HandCal//EN
BEGIN:VFREEBUSY
ORGANIZER:MAILTO:jsmith@example.com
DTSTART:19980313T141711Z
DTEND:19980410T141711Z
FREEBUSY:19980314T233000Z/19980315T003000Z
FREEBUSY:19980316T153000Z/19980316T163000Z
FREEBUSY:19980318T030000Z/19980318T040000Z
URL:http://www.example.com/calendar/busytime/jsmith.ifb
END:VFREEBUSY
END:VCALENDAR
</code>

Other component types
Other component types include VTIMEZONE (time zones) and VALARM (alarms). Some components can include other components (VALARM is often included in other components).

*Distributing updates*
The UID field distributes updates when a scheduled event changes. When the event is first generated a globally unique identifier is created. If a later event is distributed with the same UID, it replaces the original one.

*Calendar extensions*
vCalendar and iCalendar support private software extensions, with a "X-" prefix, a number of which are in common usage.
Some of these include:
X-RECURRENCE-ID - vCalendar 1.0 extension which mimics the iCalendar 2.0 RECURRENCE-ID (Nokia S60 3rd Edition)
X-EPOCAGENDAENTRYTYPE - defines the client calendar type
X-FUNAMBOL-AALARMOPTIONS
X-FUNAMBOL-ALLDAY - All Day event flag
X-MICROSOFT-CDO-ALLDAYEVENT - Microsoft Outlook all day event flag
X-MICROSOFT-CDO-BUSYSTATUS - Microsoft Outlook status information
X-WR-CALNAME - The display name of the calendar
X-WR-CALDESC - A description of the calendar
X-WR-RELCALID
X-WR-TIMEZONE
X-PUBLISHED-TTL - Recommended update interval for subscription to the calendar

*vCalendar 1.0*
iCalendar's design was based on the previous file format vCalendar created by the Internet Mail Consortium (IMC).
Here is an example of information in vCalendar format:

<code>
BEGIN:VCALENDAR
VERSION:1.0
BEGIN:VEVENT
CATEGORIES:MEETING
STATUS:TENTATIVE
DTSTART:19960401T033000Z
DTEND:19960401T043000Z
SUMMARY:Your Proposal Review
DESCRIPTION:Steve and John to review newest proposal material
CLASS:PRIVATE
END:VEVENT
END:VCALENDAR
</code>
After iCalendar was released, the Internet Mail Consortium stated that it "hopes that all vCalendar developers take advantage of these new open standards and make their software compatible with both vCalendar 1.0 and iCalendar.